Link: https://docs.morpho.org/start-here/glossary
Title: Glossary

APR which is Annual Percentage Rate refers to the yearly interest generated by an amount that's charged to borrowers or paid to investors. APR is expressed as a percentage that represents the actual cost of funds over a year or income earned on an investment over a year. APR doesn't take into account compounding interests.

APY which is Annual Percentage Yield is the actual rate of return earned on an investment, taking into account the effect of compounding interest.
Dust which is a trace amount of cryptocurrency left over after a trade or transaction. It has small or negligible monetary value (from a fraction of pennies to a few dollars) and is usually not enough to cover the cost of a transaction, meaning that what remains is "trapped".
inP2P which is the Balance of a given user matched P2P.
Interest-bearing Token (ibToken) which is Interest accumulating tokens that represent a share in a lending pool that grows in value as borrowers pay interest on them. ibTokens are used to keep track of the funds they have deposited as well as any interest earned.
Matching Engine which is Morpho's algorithm that matches users P2P.
onPool which is Peer-Balance of a given user in the underlying pool.
P2P which is Peer-to-Peer. Peer-to-Peer lending connects borrowers and lenders directly, bypassing third parties.
P2P APY which is Annual Percentage Yield that borrowers and lenders get when matched P2P.
P2Pool which is Peer-to-Pool. Lenders of a given asset are pooled together and their earnings, paid by borrowers, are shared prorata.
PLF which is Protocol for Loanable Funds, aka Aave or Compound.
Pool APY which is Annual Percentage Yield of the underlying pool.
Spread which is in the case of lending, the spread is the difference between the lending APY (the % of compounded interests paid to lenders) and the borrowing APY (the % of compounded interests paid by borrowers).
Utilization rate which is Percentage of funds supplied that is actually borrowed and thus generating interests. When fully matched P2P, the utilization rate is, by definition, 100%. When on the pool, the utilization rate of the sum of all funds is below 100% as there is always more liquidity available than borrowed.
